.. _2023-1-testing-runtime:

==========================
Tested Runtimes for 2023.1
==========================

At the start of the 2023.1 development cycle, the current :ref:`LTS or stable
distribution <pti-linux-distros>` versions are:

* Ubuntu 22.04
* Debian 11

Additional testing for smooth upgrade
-------------------------------------

In this release, we are adding the testing of Ubuntu new version 22.04.
For smooth upgrade, we will continue the minimum testing for previously
supported Ubuntu version in this release.

* Ubuntu 20.04

Best Effort
-----------

This distribution list is the best effort to test them in OpenStack CI/CD. These may not be part of integrated testing and may be tested periodically only.

* CentOS Stream 9

Python Runtimes for 2023.1
==========================

It is the :doc:`policy <../../resolutions/20181024-python-update-process>` that
each OpenStack release cycle will target the latest available version of
Python; default Python runtimes on the distributions listed above; and versions
used in integration tests at the start of the cycle, at least until the point
when all projects have migrated to a later version.

Based on the criteria above, all Python-based projects must target and test
against, at a minimum:

* Python 3.8 (available as default in Ubuntu 20.04)
* Python 3.10 (available as default in Ubuntu 22.04)

Other than the above Python versions, Debian 11 has Python 3.9 as default which
we are not suggesting to run unit tests. We assume that anything that works on
Python 3.8 and 3.10 will also work on 3.9.

More details on Python requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-python`.

Node.js Runtime for 2023.1
==========================

Based on the available and supported versions of Node.js (in either our :ref:`LTS or stable
distributions <pti-linux-distros>` or in external source) all JavaScript testing should target:

Ref: https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/

* Node.js 18

More details on Javascript requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-javascript`.

Golang Runtime for 2023.1
=========================

At this time, there are still frequent releases of Go with a wide variety of
distribution packaged versions. Given the current state of Go support and the
number of projects within OpenStack using Go, no formal version declaration is
being made at this time.

More details on Go requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-golang`.
