.. _2023-2-testing-runtime:

==========================
Tested Runtimes for 2023.2
==========================

At the start of the 2023.2 development cycle, the current :ref:`LTS or stable
distribution <pti-linux-distros>` versions are:

* Ubuntu 22.04
* Debian 11

Additional testing for smooth upgrade
-------------------------------------

None

Best Effort
-----------

This distribution list is the best effort to test them in OpenStack CI/CD. These may not be part of integrated testing and may be tested periodically only.

* CentOS Stream 9
* Rocky Linux 9

Python Runtimes for 2023.2
==========================

It is the :doc:`policy <../../resolutions/20181024-python-update-process>` that
each OpenStack release cycle will target the latest available version of
Python; default Python runtimes on the distributions listed above; and versions
used in integration tests at the start of the cycle, at least until the point
when all projects have migrated to a later version.

Based on the criteria above, all Python-based projects must target and test
against, at a minimum:

* Python 3.9 (available as default in Debian 11)
* Python 3.10 (available as default in Ubuntu 22.04)

All Python-based projects must additionally target and test
against following Python versions:

* Python 3.8 (available as default in Ubuntu 20.04)

Minimal requirement on testing jobs against python versions above is to
ensure language compatibility, for example by running unit tests. Having more
extensive testing is allowed.

Other projects are highly appreciated to keep testing against the Python
versions above whenever possible.

More details on Python requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-python`.

Node.js Runtime for 2023.2
==========================

Based on the available and supported versions of Node.js (in either our :ref:`LTS or stable
distributions <pti-linux-distros>` or in external source) all JavaScript testing should target:

Ref: https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/

* Node.js 18

More details on Javascript requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-javascript`.

Golang Runtime for 2023.2
=========================

At this time, there are still frequent releases of Go with a wide variety of
distribution packaged versions. Given the current state of Go support and the
number of projects within OpenStack using Go, no formal version declaration is
being made at this time.

More details on Go requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-golang`.
