.. _2025-2-testing-runtime:

=====================================
Tested Runtimes for 2025.2 (Flamingo)
=====================================

Linux Distribution
==================

At the start of the 2025.2 development cycle, the current :ref:`LTS or stable
distribution <pti-linux-distros>` versions are:

* Ubuntu 24.04
* Debian 12

Additional testing for a smooth upgrade
---------------------------------------

* None

Python
======

It is the :doc:`policy <../../resolutions/20181024-python-update-process>` that
each OpenStack release cycle will target the latest available version of
Python; default Python runtime on the distributions listed above; and versions
used in integration tests at the start of the cycle, at least until the point
when all projects have migrated to a later version.

Also, as per the Python testing requirements defined in :ref:`pti-python`,
projects should avoid removing Python versions that have not reached EOL
without a solid reason.

Based on the criteria above, all Python-based projects must target and test
against, at a minimum:

* Python 3.10 (available as default in Ubuntu 22.04)

  Python 3.10 is the the minimum supported/required version for 2025.2.
  This does not imply that Ubuntu 22.04 is the minimum supported distribution
  but it may be used for tox testing. Supporting Python 3.10 does not require
  full tempest testing, but py310 unit tests are expected as a minimum
  requirement for all Python projects. The minimal requirement for
  testing jobs against Python versions above is to ensure language compatibility,
  having more extensive testing is allowed.

* Python 3.11 (available as default in Debian 12)

  In previous cycle testing, we have not seen many incompatible changes between
  Python 3.10 and Python 3.11. It is okay to skip running the Python 3.11
  testing jobs assuming that anything that works on Python 3.10 and 3.12 will
  also work on 3.11. Periodic testing should be enough for this.

* Python 3.12 (available as default in Ubuntu 24.04)

  This is the upper bound of required testing for 2025.2.

* Python 3.13 (available as default in Debian 13)

  This is not mandatory testing in the 2025.2 cycle, and there is no guarantee
  that the OpenStack 2025.2 release will support Python 3.13. Debian 13
  ("Trixie") is expected to ship prior to the OpenStack 2025.2 release
  and will include Python 3.13 as the default.

  .. warning::

     There is a high chance that we might see a lot of failures with Python
     3.13 and need a good amount of time to fix them. Adding testing with
     non-voting jobs is an effort to start finding and addressing the issues
     in advance. It is recommended to start the minimal testing in the 2025.2
     cycle.

     Python 3.13 will be mandatory testing in a future release.

More details on Python requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-python`.

Advance/Unstable Testing
========================

The below list is for the distribution/python advance or unstable versions
to test them in OpenStack CI/CD. These may not be part of integrated testing
and may be tested as non-blockers or periodically only. The main idea is to
test them in advance to be part of integrated testing in future
cycles.

Based on their testing infra setup, instability, or their future
releases, we can modify the list during any phase of the current development
cycle.

* CentOS Stream 10
* Rocky Linux 10
