.. _2026-2-testing-runtime:

=====================================
Tested Runtimes for 2026.2 (Hibiscus)
=====================================

Linux Distribution
==================

At the start of the 2026.2 development cycle, the current :ref:`LTS or stable
distribution <pti-linux-distros>` versions are:

* Ubuntu 24.04
* Debian 13

Additional testing for a smooth upgrade
---------------------------------------

* None

Python
======

It is the :doc:`policy <../../resolutions/20181024-python-update-process>` that
each OpenStack release cycle will target the latest available version of
Python; default Python runtime on the distributions listed above; and versions
used in integration tests at the start of the cycle, at least until the point
when all projects have migrated to a later version.

Also, as per the Python testing requirements defined in :ref:`pti-python`,
projects should avoid removing Python versions that have not reached EOL
without a solid reason.

Based on the criteria above, all Python-based projects must target and test
against, at a minimum:

* Python 3.11

  Python 3.11 is the minimum supported/required version for 2026.2. Supporting
  Python 3.11 does not require full tempest testing, but py311 unit tests are
  expected as a minimum requirement for all Python projects. The minimal
  requirement for testing jobs against Python versions above is to ensure
  language compatibility, having more extensive testing is allowed.

* Python 3.12 (available as default in Ubuntu 24.04)

  Python 3.12 is the default Python version on Ubuntu 24.04, a tested
  distribution. Running dedicated Python 3.12 unit test jobs is not required
  since tempest jobs on Ubuntu 24.04 provide functional testing coverage for
  this version. Periodic-only unit test jobs should be enough to complement
  this.

* Python 3.13 (available as default in Debian 13)

  This is the upper bound of required testing for 2026.2.

* Python 3.14 (available as default in Ubuntu 26.04)

  Python 3.14 was released in October 2025 and is the default Python version
  in Ubuntu 26.04, which releases during the Hibiscus development cycle.
  Testing with Python 3.14 is not yet mandatory for the 2026.2 release.

  .. warning::

     Project teams are strongly encouraged to prioritize testing with
     Python 3.14 in this cycle. A prudent approach is to begin with linting
     and unit test jobs, and then extend testing to end-to-end jobs that
     exercise tempest tests. Any incompatibilities with Python 3.14 should
     be identified and addressed as early as possible. In a future release,
     functional and end-to-end test jobs could default to running on
     Python 3.14 deployments.

More details on Python requirements can be found in :ref:`pti-python`.

Advance/Unstable Testing
========================

The below list is for the distribution/python advance or unstable versions
to test them in OpenStack CI/CD. These may not be part of integrated testing
and may be tested as non-blockers or periodically only. The main idea is to
test them in advance to be part of integrated testing in future
cycles.

Based on their testing infra setup, instability, or their future
releases, we can modify the list during any phase of the current development
cycle.

* Ubuntu 26.04

  Ubuntu 26.04 releases on April 23, 2026, a few weeks into the Hibiscus
  development cycle. It ships Python 3.14 as the default Python version,
  providing functional testing coverage on the latest upstream-supported
  version of Python on the latest Ubuntu LTS.

* CentOS Stream 10
* Rocky Linux 10
* AlmaLinux 10

  AlmaLinux 10's continued support for x86_64_v2 makes it a
  compelling option for project teams due to greater CI node
  availability. We may need to work through additional packaging
  deficiencies occasionally. We do not expect any other major
  differences between these Enterprise Linux distributions.
  Project teams can make a choice based on their needs.
